README.md, before:

# AI News Platform

> A local-first, extensible AI news aggregation platform for macOS

## Features

- **Local-First**: All data stored locally in SQLite with WAL mode
- **Extensible**: Add new sources by editing `config.yaml` - no code required
- **Fast**: Sub-second search with FTS5, digest generation in <30s
- **Intelligent**: Deduplication, denoising, and relevance-based ranking
- **Resilient**: Per-source failure isolation, circuit breakers, retry logic
- **Scalable**: Async I/O, batch processing, connection pooling

## Quick Start

```bash
# 1. Install dependencies
./bin/setup.sh

# 2. Configure (optional)
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env with your API keys

# 3. Start the platform
./bin/start.sh

# 4. Open browser
open http://localhost:3000
```

## Architecture

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                         Next.js UI                           │
│          (Digest View, Search, Source Management)            │
└────────────────────┬────────────────────────────────────────┘
                     │
                     │ API Routes
                     │
┌────────────────────▼────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                   Python Backend                             │
│  ┌──────────────┐  ┌──────────────┐  ┌──────────────┐      │
│  │  Connectors  │→ │  Pipeline    │→ │  Denoise &   │      │
│  │  (RSS/API)   │  │  Orchestrator│  │  Ranking     │      │
│  └──────────────┘  └──────────────┘  └──────────────┘      │
│                           │                                  │
│                           ▼                                  │
│                  ┌─────────────────┐                        │
│                  │  SQLite + FTS5  │                        │
│                  └─────────────────┘                        │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## Project Structure

```
AI_news_platform/
├── backend/                 # Python backend
│   ├── connectors/         # Source connectors (RSS, API, Scrape)
│   ├── storage/            # Database layer & models
│   ├── pipeline/           # Ingest orchestration & CLI
│   ├── denoise/            # Filtering & deduplication
│   └── digest/             # Ranking & summarization
├── app/                    # Next.js frontend
│   ├── api/                # API routes
│   ├── search/             # Search page
│   ├── sources/            # Source management
│   └── item/[id]/          # Item details
├── data/                   # Local data storage
│   ├── ainews.db           # SQLite database
│   └── snapshots/          # HTML/JSON snapshots
├── bin/                    # Utility scripts
│   ├── setup.sh            # Installation
│   ├── start.sh            # Startup
│   └── ingest.sh           # Manual ingest trigger
├── launchd/                # macOS scheduled tasks
├── tests/                  # Test suites
├── docs/                   # Documentation
├── config.yaml             # Source & scoring configuration
└── .env                    # Environment variables
```

## Usage

### Daily Digest

The home page shows today's curated digest:
- **News**: Top 20 AI news items
- **Tips**: Top 20 practical tips & tutorials
- **Papers**: Top 10 research papers

Each item includes:
- Title & source
- "Why it matters" summary
- Relevance score breakdown
- Publication date & popularity metrics

### Search

Full-text search across all items:
```
/search?q=RAG&category=tips&lang=en&days=7
```

Filters:
- Category (news/tips/paper)
- Language (en/ja)
- Date range
- Source
- Minimum score

### Source Management

`/sources` page shows:
- All configured sources
- Last fetch timestamp
- Error status
- Enable/disable toggle
- Manual refresh button

### Manual Operations

```bash
# Ingest all sources
python -m backend.pipeline.cli ingest --all

# Ingest specific source
python -m backend.pipeline.cli ingest --source openai_news

# Generate digest
python -m backend.pipeline.cli digest

# Show status
python -m backend.pipeline.cli status

# Search from CLI
python -m backend.pipeline.cli search "LLM agents"

# Vacuum & optimize
python -m backend.pipeline.cli vacuum
```

## Adding a New Source

### 1. Edit `config.yaml`

```yaml
sources:
  - id: my_new_source
    type: rss                    # or: api, rss_or_scrape
    url: https://example.com/feed.xml
    category: news               # news, tips, or paper
    authority: 0.75              # 0.0 to 1.0
    refresh_hours: 12
    lang: en
    # Optional:
    user_agent: "Custom UA"
    headers:
      Authorization: "Bearer ${MY_TOKEN}"
    params:
      limit: 50
```

### 2. Add to quotas (optional)

```yaml
scoring:
  quotas:
    my_new_source: 15
```

### 3. Test

```bash
python -m backend.pipeline.cli ingest --source my_new_source
```

That's it! No code changes needed.

## Advanced: Adding a New Connector Type

If RSS/API aren't enough, implement a custom connector:

```python
# backend/connectors/custom.py
from backend.connectors.base import BaseConnector

class CustomConnector(BaseConnector):
    async def fetch(self) -> List[Dict]:
        # Your custom logic
        return items
```

Update config:
```yaml
  - id: custom_source
    type: custom  # Maps to CustomConnector
    # ...
```

## Performance Tuning

### Database Optimization

```bash
# Analyze query performance
sqlite3 data/ainews.db "ANALYZE"

# Check index usage
python -m backend.pipeline.cli explain-query "SELECT * FROM items WHERE ..."
```

### Concurrent Sources

Edit `config.yaml`:
```yaml
performance:
  max_concurrent_sources: 20  # Increase for more parallelism
  request_timeout_seconds: 60  # Adjust for slow sources
```

### Batch Size

For large ingests:
```yaml
performance:
  batch_size: 2000  # Larger batches = faster, more memory
```

### Embeddings for Better Dedup

```yaml
performance:
  use_embeddings: true
```

Requires: `pip install sentence-transformers`

## Troubleshooting

### Source Fetch Fails

Check `/sources` page for error details, or:
```bash
python -m backend.pipeline.cli status --verbose
```

Common issues:
- **Rate limiting**: Increase `refresh_hours` or add API token
- **Blocked UA**: Set custom `user_agent` in config
- **SSL errors**: Update CA certificates

### Search is Slow

```bash
# Rebuild FTS index
python -m backend.pipeline.cli rebuild-fts

# Vacuum database
python -m backend.pipeline.cli vacuum
```

### High Memory Usage

Reduce:
```yaml
performance:
  batch_size: 500
  max_concurrent_sources: 5
```

### Digest Not Updating

Check schedule:
```bash
launchctl list | grep ainews
launchctl print gui/$(id -u)/com.ainews.ingest
```

Reload:
```bash
./bin/setup.sh --reload-launchd
```

## Development

### Run Tests

```bash
# All tests
pytest

# Specific module
pytest tests/test_connectors.py

# With coverage
pytest --cov=backend --cov-report=html
```

### Code Quality

```bash
# Lint
ruff check .

# Format
ruff format .

# Type check
mypy backend/
```

### Database Migrations

```bash
# Create migration
python -m backend.storage.migrations create "add_new_field"

# Apply migrations
python -m backend.storage.migrations upgrade

# Rollback
python -m backend.storage.migrations downgrade
```

## Scaling Beyond Local

While designed for local-first use, the architecture supports scaling:

1. **Multi-instance ingest**: Run multiple ingest workers with connection pooling
2. **Read replicas**: SQLite's WAL mode supports concurrent readers
3. **Distributed storage**: Replace SQLite with PostgreSQL (connector pattern supports this)
4. **Caching layer**: Add Redis for API response caching
5. **CDN**: Deploy Next.js to Vercel/Netlify for global UI

See `docs/SCALING.md` for details.

## License

MIT

## Credits

Built with:
- [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) - UI framework
- [SQLite](https://www.sqlite.org/) - Local database
- [FTS5](https://www.sqlite.org/fts5.html) - Full-text search
- [aiohttp](https://docs.aiohttp.org/) - Async HTTP
- [feedparser](https://feedparser.readthedocs.io/) - RSS parsing
- [BeautifulSoup](https://www.crummy.com/software/BeautifulSoup/) - HTML parsing

Commit message:

Implement source management features: Added PATCH endpoint for enabling/disabling sources, integrated source syncing from config to database, and enhanced the CLI for source management. Updated README with API key requirements and improved setup scripts to create necessary log directories.

README.md, after:

# AI News Platform

> A local-first, extensible AI news aggregation platform for macOS

## Features

- **Local-First**: All data stored locally in SQLite with WAL mode
- **Extensible**: Add new sources by editing `config.yaml` - no code required
- **Fast**: Sub-second search with FTS5, digest generation in <30s
- **Intelligent**: Deduplication, denoising, and relevance-based ranking
- **Resilient**: Per-source failure isolation, circuit breakers, retry logic
- **Scalable**: Async I/O, batch processing, connection pooling

## Quick Start

```bash
# 1. Install dependencies
./bin/setup.sh

# 2. Configure (optional)
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env with API keys for full functionality (see "API keys and rate limits" below)

# 3. Start the platform
./bin/start.sh

# 4. Open browser
open http://localhost:3000
```

## Architecture

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                         Next.js UI                           │
│          (Digest View, Search, Source Management)            │
└────────────────────┬────────────────────────────────────────┘
                     │
                     │ API Routes
                     │
┌────────────────────▼────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                   Python Backend                             │
│  ┌──────────────┐  ┌──────────────┐  ┌──────────────┐      │
│  │  Connectors  │→ │  Pipeline    │→ │  Denoise &   │      │
│  │  (RSS/API)   │  │  Orchestrator│  │  Ranking     │      │
│  └──────────────┘  └──────────────┘  └──────────────┘      │
│                           │                                  │
│                           ▼                                  │
│                  ┌─────────────────┐                        │
│                  │  SQLite + FTS5  │                        │
│                  └─────────────────┘                        │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## Project Structure

```
AI_news_platform/
├── backend/                 # Python backend
│   ├── connectors/         # Source connectors (RSS, API, Scrape)
│   ├── storage/            # Database layer & models
│   ├── pipeline/           # Ingest orchestration & CLI
│   ├── denoise/            # Filtering & deduplication
│   └── digest/             # Ranking & summarization
├── app/                    # Next.js frontend
│   ├── api/                # API routes
│   ├── search/             # Search page
│   ├── sources/            # Source management
│   └── item/[id]/          # Item details
├── data/                   # Local data storage
│   ├── ainews.db           # SQLite database
│   ├── snapshots/          # HTML/JSON snapshots
│   └── logs/               # launchd ingest/digest logs (optional)
├── bin/                    # Utility scripts
│   ├── setup.sh            # Installation
│   ├── start.sh            # Startup
│   └── ingest.sh           # Manual ingest trigger
├── launchd/                # macOS scheduled tasks
├── tests/                  # Test suites
├── docs/                   # Documentation
├── config.yaml             # Source & scoring configuration
└── .env                    # Environment variables
```

## Usage

### Daily Digest

The home page shows today's curated digest:
- **News**: Top 20 AI news items
- **Tips**: Top 20 practical tips & tutorials
- **Papers**: Top 10 research papers

Each item includes:
- Title & source
- "Why it matters" summary
- Relevance score breakdown
- Publication date & popularity metrics

### Search

Full-text search across all items:
```
/search?q=RAG&category=tips&lang=en&days=7
```

Filters:
- Category (news/tips/paper)
- Language (en/ja)
- Date range
- Source
- Minimum score

### Source Management

`/sources` page shows:
- All configured sources
- Last fetch timestamp
- Error status
- Enable/disable toggle
- Manual refresh button

### Manual Operations

```bash
# Ingest all sources
python -m backend.pipeline.cli ingest --all

# Ingest specific source
python -m backend.pipeline.cli ingest --source openai_news

# Generate digest
python -m backend.pipeline.cli digest

# Show status
python -m backend.pipeline.cli status

# Search from CLI
python -m backend.pipeline.cli search "LLM agents"

# Vacuum & optimize
python -m backend.pipeline.cli vacuum
```

## Adding a New Source

### 1. Edit `config.yaml`

```yaml
sources:
  - id: my_new_source
    type: rss                    # or: api, rss_or_scrape
    url: https://example.com/feed.xml
    category: news               # news, tips, or paper
    authority: 0.75              # 0.0 to 1.0
    refresh_hours: 12
    lang: en
    # Optional:
    user_agent: "Custom UA"
    headers:
      Authorization: "Bearer ${MY_TOKEN}"
    params:
      limit: 50
```

### 2. Add to quotas (optional)

```yaml
scoring:
  quotas:
    my_new_source: 15
```

### 3. Test

```bash
python -m backend.pipeline.cli ingest --source my_new_source
```

That's it! No code changes needed.

## Advanced: Adding a New Connector Type

If RSS/API aren't enough, implement a custom connector:

```python
# backend/connectors/custom.py
from backend.connectors.base import BaseConnector

class CustomConnector(BaseConnector):
    async def fetch(self) -> List[Dict]:
        # Your custom logic
        return items
```

Update config:
```yaml
  - id: custom_source
    type: custom  # Maps to CustomConnector
    # ...
```

## Performance Tuning

### Database Optimization

```bash
# Analyze query performance
sqlite3 data/ainews.db "ANALYZE"

# Check index usage
python -m backend.pipeline.cli explain-query "SELECT * FROM items WHERE ..."
```

### Concurrent Sources

Edit `config.yaml`:
```yaml
performance:
  max_concurrent_sources: 20  # Increase for more parallelism
  request_timeout_seconds: 60  # Adjust for slow sources
```

### Batch Size

For large ingests:
```yaml
performance:
  batch_size: 2000  # Larger batches = faster, more memory
```

### Embeddings for Better Dedup

```yaml
performance:
  use_embeddings: true
```

Requires: `pip install sentence-transformers`

## API Keys and Rate Limits

Some sources need API keys or tokens for higher rate limits or access. Without them, the app still runs but those sources may fail or be throttled.

| Variable | Used by | Notes |
|----------|---------|--------|
| `OPENAI_API_KEY` | Digest "why it matters" summaries | Default is mock summaries; set for real LLM summaries. |
| `ANTHROPIC_API_KEY` | Same (if `llm.provider: anthropic` in config) | Alternative to OpenAI. |
| `QIITA_API_TOKEN` | Qiita API connector | Unauthenticated: 60 req/h. With token: 1000 req/h. |
| `GITHUB_TOKEN` | GitHub Search API connector | Unauthenticated: strict limit; token avoids 403. |

- **RSS sources** (OpenAI, DeepMind, Zenn, Reddit, etc.) generally work without keys; some feeds may block certain clients (we use fallback where configured).
- **Digest summaries**: With `llm.provider: mock` (default in config), no key is needed; summaries are placeholder. Set `OPENAI_API_KEY` (or Anthropic) and `llm.provider: openai` for real summaries.
- If a source repeatedly fails, check `/sources` for the error, add the right env var if needed, or disable the source from the Sources page.

## Troubleshooting

### Source Fetch Fails

Check `/sources` page for error details, or:
```bash
python -m backend.pipeline.cli status --verbose
```

Common issues:
- **Rate limiting**: Increase `refresh_hours` or add API token
- **Blocked UA**: Set custom `user_agent` in config
- **SSL errors**: Update CA certificates

### Search is Slow

```bash
# Rebuild FTS index
python -m backend.pipeline.cli rebuild-fts

# Vacuum database
python -m backend.pipeline.cli vacuum
```

### High Memory Usage

Reduce:
```yaml
performance:
  batch_size: 500
  max_concurrent_sources: 5
```

### Digest Not Updating

Check schedule:
```bash
launchctl list | grep ainews
launchctl print gui/$(id -u)/com.ainews.ingest
```

Reload:
```bash
./bin/setup.sh --reload-launchd
```

## Development

### Run Tests

```bash
# All tests
pytest

# Specific module
pytest tests/test_connectors.py

# With coverage
pytest --cov=backend --cov-report=html
```

### Code Quality

```bash
# Lint
ruff check .

# Format
ruff format .

# Type check
mypy backend/
```

### Database Migrations

```bash
# Create migration
python -m backend.storage.migrations create "add_new_field"

# Apply migrations
python -m backend.storage.migrations upgrade

# Rollback
python -m backend.storage.migrations downgrade
```

## Scaling Beyond Local

While designed for local-first use, the architecture supports scaling:

1. **Multi-instance ingest**: Run multiple ingest workers with connection pooling
2. **Read replicas**: SQLite's WAL mode supports concurrent readers
3. **Distributed storage**: Replace SQLite with PostgreSQL (connector pattern supports this)
4. **Caching layer**: Add Redis for API response caching
5. **CDN**: Deploy Next.js to Vercel/Netlify for global UI

See `docs/SCALING.md` for details.

## License

MIT

## Credits

Built with:
- [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) - UI framework
- [SQLite](https://www.sqlite.org/) - Local database
- [FTS5](https://www.sqlite.org/fts5.html) - Full-text search
- [aiohttp](https://docs.aiohttp.org/) - Async HTTP
- [feedparser](https://feedparser.readthedocs.io/) - RSS parsing
- [BeautifulSoup](https://www.crummy.com/software/BeautifulSoup/) - HTML parsing
