docs/ADD_SOURCE_GUIDE.md, before:

# How to Add a New Source

One of the key design goals is **zero-code source additions**. Here's how to add a new source in under 5 minutes.

## Quick Example

Want to add The Verge AI news? Just edit `config.yaml`:

```yaml
sources:
  # ... existing sources ...

  - id: verge_ai
    type: rss
    url: https://www.theverge.com/rss/ai-artificial-intelligence/index.xml
    category: news
    authority: 0.80
    refresh_hours: 12
    lang: en
```

That's it! No code changes needed.

## Step-by-Step Guide

### 1. Identify Source Type

Choose based on what the source provides:

| Source Type | When to Use | Examples |
|-------------|-------------|----------|
| `rss` | Standard RSS/Atom feed | Blog feeds, news sites |
| `api` | RESTful JSON API | GitHub, Hacker News, Qiita |
| `rss_or_scrape` | RSS with HTML fallback | Sites that may block feeds |
| `scrape` | No RSS/API available | (Use as last resort) |

### 2. Find the Feed/API URL

**For RSS:**
- Look for RSS icon on the website
- Check `/feed`, `/rss`, `/atom.xml` paths
- View page source and search for `application/rss+xml`

**For APIs:**
- Check the developer documentation
- Look for public API endpoints
- Test with curl: `curl -i "https://api.example.com/items"`

### 3. Choose Category

Pick the category that best fits:

- **`news`**: Breaking news, announcements, product launches
- **`tips`**: Tutorials, how-tos, best practices, code examples
- **`paper`**: Research papers, academic publications

### 4. Set Authority

Authority (0.0 to 1.0) affects scoring:

| Authority | When to Use |
|-----------|-------------|
| 0.9 - 1.0 | Official sources (OpenAI, Google, arXiv) |
| 0.8 - 0.9 | Highly reputable (major tech blogs) |
| 0.7 - 0.8 | Well-known community sources (HN, Reddit) |
| 0.6 - 0.7 | Niche but quality sources |
| 0.5 - 0.6 | Experimental or less-vetted sources |

### 5. Configure Refresh Rate

Balance freshness vs. rate limits:

| Refresh Hours | When to Use |
|---------------|-------------|
| 1-6 | Breaking news, high-velocity sources |
| 6-12 | Daily blogs, moderate activity |
| 12-24 | Research, weekly publications |

### 6. Add to `config.yaml`

```yaml
sources:
  - id: my_new_source          # Unique identifier (lowercase, underscores)
    type: rss                   # rss, api, rss_or_scrape, scrape
    url: https://example.com/feed.xml
    category: news              # news, tips, paper
    authority: 0.75             # 0.0 to 1.0
    refresh_hours: 12           # How often to fetch
    lang: en                    # en, ja, etc.
```

### 7. Test the Source

```bash
# Test single source ingest
python -m backend.pipeline.cli ingest --source my_new_source

# Check for errors
python -m backend.pipeline.cli status --verbose
```

### 8. Set Quota (Optional)

Limit how many items from this source appear in the digest:

```yaml
scoring:
  quotas:
    my_new_source: 10  # Max 10 items per digest
```

## Advanced Configuration

### API Sources with Parameters

```yaml
  - id: github_trending
    type: api
    url: https://api.github.com/search/repositories
    params:
      q: "stars:>100 created:>2025-01-01"
      sort: stars
      order: desc
      per_page: 30
    category: news
    authority: 0.80
    refresh_hours: 24
    lang: en
    headers:
      Accept: "application/vnd.github.v3+json"
      Authorization: "Bearer ${GITHUB_TOKEN}"  # From .env
```

### Custom Headers

For sources that require authentication or custom user agents:

```yaml
  - id: protected_source
    type: rss
    url: https://example.com/feed
    headers:
      Authorization: "Bearer ${API_TOKEN}"
      User-Agent: "MyBot/1.0"
    # ...
```

### Popularity Thresholds

Only include items above a certain popularity:

```yaml
scoring:
  min_popularity:
    my_new_source:
      points: 100  # For HN-style points
      # or
      stars: 50    # For GitHub-style stars
      # or
      score: 30    # For Reddit-style scores
```

### Language Filtering

```yaml
  - id: multilang_source
    type: rss
    url: https://example.com/feed
    lang: ja  # Will be filtered if content is in other languages
    # ...
```

## Common Patterns

### Pattern 1: Standard Blog RSS

```yaml
  - id: ai_blog
    type: rss
    url: https://blog.example.com/feed.xml
    category: news
    authority: 0.75
    refresh_hours: 12
    lang: en
```

### Pattern 2: API with Search Query

```yaml
  - id: api_search
    type: api
    url: https://api.example.com/search
    params:
      q: "AI OR machine learning"
      limit: 50
    category: tips
    authority: 0.70
    refresh_hours: 6
    lang: en
```

### Pattern 3: RSS with Fallback Scraper

```yaml
  - id: protected_rss
    type: rss_or_scrape
    url: https://example.com/rss
    category: news
    authority: 0.80
    refresh_hours: 12
    lang: en
    user_agent: "Mozilla/5.0 (compatible; AINewsBot/1.0)"
```

### Pattern 4: Reddit Subreddit

```yaml
  - id: reddit_machinelearning
    type: rss
    url: https://www.reddit.com/r/MachineLearning/.rss
    category: tips
    authority: 0.70
    refresh_hours: 6
    lang: en
```

### Pattern 5: arXiv Category

```yaml
  - id: arxiv_cs_ai
    type: rss
    url: https://rss.arxiv.org/rss/cs.AI
    category: paper
    authority: 0.85
    refresh_hours: 24
    lang: en
```

## Troubleshooting

### Source Returns No Items

1. **Test URL manually:**
   ```bash
   curl -I "https://example.com/feed.xml"
   ```

2. **Check response:**
   - 200 OK → Should work
   - 403 Forbidden → Try custom user-agent
   - 404 Not Found → URL is wrong
   - 500 Error → Source is down

3. **Verify feed format:**
   ```bash
   curl "https://example.com/feed.xml" | head -20
   ```
   Should show XML starting with `<rss>` or `<feed>`

### Source Gets Blocked

Add a custom user agent:

```yaml
  - id: my_source
    type: rss_or_scrape  # Enable fallback
    url: https://example.com/feed
    user_agent: "Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10_15_7)"
    # ...
```

### API Rate Limiting

1. **Increase refresh interval:**
   ```yaml
   refresh_hours: 24  # Instead of 6
   ```

2. **Add API token:**
   ```bash
   # In .env
   MY_API_TOKEN=your_token_here
   ```

   ```yaml
   headers:
     Authorization: "Bearer ${MY_API_TOKEN}"
   ```

3. **Reduce items fetched:**
   ```yaml
   params:
     per_page: 10  # Instead of 50
   ```

### Items Not Appearing in Digest

Check scoring and quotas:

```bash
# See item scores
sqlite3 data/ainews.db "SELECT id, title, score FROM metrics ORDER BY score DESC LIMIT 20"

# Check source quota
grep -A 5 "quotas:" config.yaml
```

May need to:
- Increase source quota
- Increase authority
- Lower min_popularity threshold

### Duplicate Items

Sources may overlap. This is OK! The deduplication engine will cluster duplicates and pick the best representative.

## Real-World Examples

### Adding The Verge AI

```yaml
  - id: verge_ai
    type: rss
    url: https://www.theverge.com/rss/ai-artificial-intelligence/index.xml
    category: news
    authority: 0.80
    refresh_hours: 12
    lang: en
```

### Adding LangChain Blog

```yaml
  - id: langchain_blog
    type: rss
    url: https://blog.langchain.dev/feed/
    category: tips
    authority: 0.75
    refresh_hours: 12
    lang: en
```

### Adding Replicate Blog

```yaml
  - id: replicate_blog
    type: rss
    url: https://replicate.com/blog/rss.xml
    category: news
    authority: 0.75
    refresh_hours: 12
    lang: en
```

### Adding Papers with Code (trending)

```yaml
  - id: papers_with_code
    type: api
    url: https://paperswithcode.com/api/v1/papers/
    params:
      ordering: "-stars_count"
      items_per_page: 30
    category: paper
    authority: 0.85
    refresh_hours: 24
    lang: en
```

### Adding Lobsters

```yaml
  - id: lobsters
    type: rss
    url: https://lobste.rs/rss
    category: news
    authority: 0.70
    refresh_hours: 6
    lang: en
```

## Best Practices

1. **Start with low authority** (0.6-0.7) and adjust based on quality
2. **Set appropriate quotas** to prevent source dominance
3. **Test before committing** to config
4. **Monitor error rates** via `/sources` page
5. **Use specific categories** for better filtering
6. **Respect rate limits** - prefer longer refresh intervals
7. **Add API tokens** when available (better rate limits)
8. **Document custom sources** in your own notes

## When Code is Required

You only need code changes if:

1. **New connector type** (beyond RSS/API/scrape)
   - Example: WebSocket feeds, GraphQL APIs
   - Create new class extending `BaseConnector`

2. **Complex authentication** (OAuth, JWT)
   - Implement in custom connector

3. **Non-standard data format** (custom XML, binary)
   - Add parser in connector

4. **Complex API pagination** (cursor-based, etc.)
   - Override `fetch()` method in connector

For 95% of sources, config-only is enough!

## Checklist

- [ ] Identified source type (RSS/API/scrape)
- [ ] Found feed/API URL
- [ ] Tested URL manually (curl)
- [ ] Chosen category (news/tips/paper)
- [ ] Set authority (0.0-1.0)
- [ ] Set refresh hours
- [ ] Added to config.yaml
- [ ] Tested ingest: `python -m backend.pipeline.cli ingest --source <id>`
- [ ] Checked status: `python -m backend.pipeline.cli status`
- [ ] Set quota (optional)
- [ ] Verified items in digest
- [ ] Documented (if custom/complex)

## Getting Help

If you're stuck:

1. Check logs: `tail -f /tmp/ainews-ingest.log`
2. Run with verbose: `python -m backend.pipeline.cli ingest --source <id> --verbose`
3. Test URL separately: `curl -v "URL"`
4. Check existing similar sources in config.yaml
5. Consult connector code: `backend/connectors/`

Happy source hunting! 🎯

Commit message:

Enhance configuration and functionality: Updated config.yaml to clarify source usage, added aiosqlite dependency in pyproject.toml, implemented digest generation feature in DigestTabs component, and improved API for digest handling. Added methods for fetching items by date in DatabaseManager and refined scoring logic in Scorer class. Updated CLI for digest processing and ensured database initialization in start script.

docs/ADD_SOURCE_GUIDE.md, after:

# How to Add a New Source

One of the key design goals is **zero-code source additions**. Here's how to add a new source in under 5 minutes.

## Quick Example

Want to add The Verge AI news? Just edit `config.yaml`:

```yaml
sources:
  # ... existing sources ...

  - id: verge_ai
    type: rss
    url: https://www.theverge.com/rss/ai-artificial-intelligence/index.xml
    category: news
    authority: 0.80
    refresh_hours: 12
    lang: en
```

That's it! No code changes needed.

## Step-by-Step Guide

### 1. Identify Source Type

Choose based on what the source provides:

| Source Type | When to Use | Examples |
|-------------|-------------|----------|
| `rss` | Standard RSS/Atom feed | Blog feeds, news sites |
| `api` | RESTful JSON API | GitHub, Hacker News, Qiita |
| `rss_or_scrape` | RSS with HTML fallback | Sites that may block feeds |
| `scrape` | No RSS/API available | (Use as last resort) |

### 2. Find the Feed/API URL

**For RSS:**
- Look for RSS icon on the website
- Check `/feed`, `/rss`, `/atom.xml` paths
- View page source and search for `application/rss+xml`

**For APIs:**
- Check the developer documentation
- Look for public API endpoints
- Test with curl: `curl -i "https://api.example.com/items"`

### 3. Choose Category

Pick the category that best fits:

- **`news`**: Breaking news, announcements, product launches
- **`tips`**: Tutorials, how-tos, best practices, code examples
- **`paper`**: Research papers, academic publications

### 4. Set Authority

Authority (0.0 to 1.0) affects scoring:

| Authority | When to Use |
|-----------|-------------|
| 0.9 - 1.0 | Official sources (OpenAI, Google, arXiv) |
| 0.8 - 0.9 | Highly reputable (major tech blogs) |
| 0.7 - 0.8 | Well-known community sources (HN, Reddit) |
| 0.6 - 0.7 | Niche but quality sources |
| 0.5 - 0.6 | Experimental or less-vetted sources |

### 5. Configure Refresh Rate

Balance freshness vs. rate limits:

| Refresh Hours | When to Use |
|---------------|-------------|
| 1-6 | Breaking news, high-velocity sources |
| 6-12 | Daily blogs, moderate activity |
| 12-24 | Research, weekly publications |

### 6. Add to `config.yaml`

```yaml
sources:
  - id: my_new_source          # Unique identifier (lowercase, underscores)
    type: rss                   # rss, api, rss_or_scrape, scrape
    url: https://example.com/feed.xml
    category: news              # news, tips, paper
    authority: 0.75             # 0.0 to 1.0
    refresh_hours: 12           # How often to fetch
    lang: en                    # en, ja, etc.
```

### 7. Test the Source

```bash
# Test single source ingest
python -m backend.pipeline.cli ingest --source my_new_source

# Check for errors
python -m backend.pipeline.cli status --verbose
```

### 8. Set Quota (Optional)

Limit how many items from this source appear in the digest:

```yaml
scoring:
  quotas:
    my_new_source: 10  # Max 10 items per digest
```

## Advanced Configuration

### API Sources with Parameters

```yaml
  - id: github_trending
    type: api
    url: https://api.github.com/search/repositories
    params:
      q: "stars:>100 created:>2025-01-01"
      sort: stars
      order: desc
      per_page: 30
    category: news
    authority: 0.80
    refresh_hours: 24
    lang: en
    headers:
      Accept: "application/vnd.github.v3+json"
      Authorization: "Bearer ${GITHUB_TOKEN}"  # From .env
```

### Custom Headers

For sources that require authentication or custom user agents:

```yaml
  - id: protected_source
    type: rss
    url: https://example.com/feed
    headers:
      Authorization: "Bearer ${API_TOKEN}"
      User-Agent: "MyBot/1.0"
    # ...
```

### Popularity Thresholds

Only include items above a certain popularity:

```yaml
scoring:
  min_popularity:
    my_new_source:
      points: 100  # For HN-style points
      # or
      stars: 50    # For GitHub-style stars
      # or
      score: 30    # For Reddit-style scores
```

### Language Filtering

```yaml
  - id: multilang_source
    type: rss
    url: https://example.com/feed
    lang: ja  # Will be filtered if content is in other languages
    # ...
```

## Common Patterns

### Pattern 1: Standard Blog RSS

```yaml
  - id: ai_blog
    type: rss
    url: https://blog.example.com/feed.xml
    category: news
    authority: 0.75
    refresh_hours: 12
    lang: en
```

### Pattern 2: API with Search Query

```yaml
  - id: api_search
    type: api
    url: https://api.example.com/search
    params:
      q: "AI OR machine learning"
      limit: 50
    category: tips
    authority: 0.70
    refresh_hours: 6
    lang: en
```

### Pattern 3: RSS with Fallback Scraper

```yaml
  - id: protected_rss
    type: rss_or_scrape
    url: https://example.com/rss
    category: news
    authority: 0.80
    refresh_hours: 12
    lang: en
    user_agent: "Mozilla/5.0 (compatible; AINewsBot/1.0)"
```

### Pattern 4: Reddit Subreddit

```yaml
  - id: reddit_machinelearning
    type: rss
    url: https://www.reddit.com/r/MachineLearning/.rss
    category: tips
    authority: 0.70
    refresh_hours: 6
    lang: en
```

### Pattern 5: arXiv Category

```yaml
  - id: arxiv_cs_ai
    type: rss
    url: https://rss.arxiv.org/rss/cs.AI
    category: paper
    authority: 0.85
    refresh_hours: 24
    lang: en
```

## Troubleshooting

### Source Returns No Items

1. **Test URL manually:**
   ```bash
   curl -I "https://example.com/feed.xml"
   ```

2. **Check response:**
   - 200 OK → Should work
   - 403 Forbidden → Try custom user-agent
   - 404 Not Found → URL is wrong
   - 500 Error → Source is down

3. **Verify feed format:**
   ```bash
   curl "https://example.com/feed.xml" | head -20
   ```
   Should show XML starting with `<rss>` or `<feed>`

### Source Gets Blocked

Add a custom user agent:

```yaml
  - id: my_source
    type: rss_or_scrape  # Enable fallback
    url: https://example.com/feed
    user_agent: "Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10_15_7)"
    # ...
```

### API Rate Limiting

1. **Increase refresh interval:**
   ```yaml
   refresh_hours: 24  # Instead of 6
   ```

2. **Add API token:**
   ```bash
   # In .env
   MY_API_TOKEN=your_token_here
   ```

   ```yaml
   headers:
     Authorization: "Bearer ${MY_API_TOKEN}"
   ```

3. **Reduce items fetched:**
   ```yaml
   params:
     per_page: 10  # Instead of 50
   ```

### Items Not Appearing in Digest

Check scoring and quotas:

```bash
# See item scores
sqlite3 data/ainews.db "SELECT id, title, score FROM metrics ORDER BY score DESC LIMIT 20"

# Check source quota
grep -A 5 "quotas:" config.yaml
```

May need to:
- Increase source quota
- Increase authority
- Lower min_popularity threshold

### Duplicate Items

Sources may overlap. This is OK! The deduplication engine will cluster duplicates and pick the best representative.

## Real-World Examples

### Adding The Verge AI

```yaml
  - id: verge_ai
    type: rss
    url: https://www.theverge.com/rss/ai-artificial-intelligence/index.xml
    category: news
    authority: 0.80
    refresh_hours: 12
    lang: en
```

### Adding LangChain Blog

```yaml
  - id: langchain_blog
    type: rss
    url: https://blog.langchain.dev/feed/
    category: tips
    authority: 0.75
    refresh_hours: 12
    lang: en
```

### Adding Replicate Blog

```yaml
  - id: replicate_blog
    type: rss
    url: https://replicate.com/blog/rss.xml
    category: news
    authority: 0.75
    refresh_hours: 12
    lang: en
```

### Adding Papers with Code (trending)

**Note:** Papers with Code (PwC) is not included in v1 defaults due to reported service instability (e.g. 2025). For v1, prefer **arXiv** (API or RSS) or **Hugging Face Daily Papers** for papers. You can add PwC as an optional source if the service is available.

```yaml
  - id: papers_with_code
    type: api
    url: https://paperswithcode.com/api/v1/papers/
    params:
      ordering: "-stars_count"
      items_per_page: 30
    category: paper
    authority: 0.85
    refresh_hours: 24
    lang: en
```

### Adding Lobsters

```yaml
  - id: lobsters
    type: rss
    url: https://lobste.rs/rss
    category: news
    authority: 0.70
    refresh_hours: 6
    lang: en
```

## Best Practices

1. **Start with low authority** (0.6-0.7) and adjust based on quality
2. **Set appropriate quotas** to prevent source dominance
3. **Test before committing** to config
4. **Monitor error rates** via `/sources` page
5. **Use specific categories** for better filtering
6. **Respect rate limits** - prefer longer refresh intervals
7. **Add API tokens** when available (better rate limits)
8. **Document custom sources** in your own notes

## When Code is Required

You only need code changes if:

1. **New connector type** (beyond RSS/API/scrape)
   - Example: WebSocket feeds, GraphQL APIs
   - Create new class extending `BaseConnector`

2. **Complex authentication** (OAuth, JWT)
   - Implement in custom connector

3. **Non-standard data format** (custom XML, binary)
   - Add parser in connector

4. **Complex API pagination** (cursor-based, etc.)
   - Override `fetch()` method in connector

For 95% of sources, config-only is enough!

## Checklist

- [ ] Identified source type (RSS/API/scrape)
- [ ] Found feed/API URL
- [ ] Tested URL manually (curl)
- [ ] Chosen category (news/tips/paper)
- [ ] Set authority (0.0-1.0)
- [ ] Set refresh hours
- [ ] Added to config.yaml
- [ ] Tested ingest: `python -m backend.pipeline.cli ingest --source <id>`
- [ ] Checked status: `python -m backend.pipeline.cli status`
- [ ] Set quota (optional)
- [ ] Verified items in digest
- [ ] Documented (if custom/complex)

## Getting Help

If you're stuck:

1. Check logs: `tail -f /tmp/ainews-ingest.log`
2. Run with verbose: `python -m backend.pipeline.cli ingest --source <id> --verbose`
3. Test URL separately: `curl -v "URL"`
4. Check existing similar sources in config.yaml
5. Consult connector code: `backend/connectors/`

Happy source hunting! 🎯
